When you first set up your Google Analytics account,
you'll be asked to choose whether you want to track a website or a mobile application.
Depending on your choice,
Google Analytics will display instructions to add the correct code to collect your data.
If you're tracking a website,
you receive a piece of JavaScript code that you
must add to every page on the site you want to track.
It's best to add this code to the top of the page before the closing head tag.
If your website uses a template,
you can add the code directly to the site template.
If you're tracking a mobile application you will download
a mobile software development kit or SDK and share it with your development team.
There's an SDK for the Android platform as well as iOS.
You can learn more about tracking apps in our developer documentation.
Once you add the code to your site,
you should start to see data immediately in the real-time reports.
But there are other ways to add the Google Analytics tracking code to a site.
One way is using a tag management tool.
If you're unfamiliar with tag management it's
a fairly new technology that makes it easy to
control and implement different types of JavaScript tags like the Google AdWords tag,
DoubleClick tags or the Google Analytics tag.
Visit the Google Tag Manager Help Center to learn more about this technology.
In addition to tag management,
some platforms also make implementation
easier by providing plug-ins to simplify the tagging process.
Plug-ins on sites like Blogger,
WordPress or Drupal simply require you to input
your Analytics ID into
the administrative settings and the platform takes care of the tagging from there.
So as you just heard from Justin,
in order for Google Analytics to track and monitor behavior in your site,
you need to add Google Analytics tracking code to your website.
Justin explained how there are
three different ways of getting the code implemented on your site.
First, you can paste the tracking code straight into the code of your site.
Or you can add the tracking code to the Google Tag Manager.
Google Tag Manager is basically a container that you implement on your site.
Once the container is there,
you can add tags to it.
Google Analytics code creates tags and you can
let Tag Manager manage this process for you.
In our next course,
you will learn more about how precisely this works.
Lastly, some platforms allow you to use plugins.
For instance, if you are creating a website in WordPress,
WordPress will do the tagging for you through a few easy steps.